README.md, before:

# 🌍 SeismoWatch: Real-time Earthquake Monitoring Platform

[![Python](https://img.shields.io/badge/python-3.8+-blue.svg)](https://www.python.org/downloads/)
[![License: MIT](https://img.shields.io/badge/License-MIT-yellow.svg)](https://opensource.org/licenses/MIT)
[![Tests](https://img.shields.io/badge/tests-passing-green.svg)](#testing)
[![Live Demo](https://img.shields.io/badge/demo-live-brightgreen.svg)](https://earthquake-dashboard.github.io)

A comprehensive **real-time earthquake monitoring platform** that provides live seismic data, intelligent alerts, and beautiful visualizations. Built with Python, Flask, and modern web technologies.

![SeismoWatch Dashboard](docs/images/dashboard-preview.png)

## ✨ Features

### 🔴 **Real-time Monitoring**
- **Live earthquake data** from USGS with 30-second updates
- **Interactive world map** with magnitude-based color coding
- **WebSocket alerts** for instant notifications
- **Background monitoring** with configurable alert zones

### 🗺️ **Advanced Visualizations**
- **Interactive maps** powered by Leaflet.js
- **Heatmaps** showing earthquake density
- **Timeline visualizations** of seismic activity
- **3D depth analysis** and cross-sections

### 🚨 **Intelligent Alerting**
- **Custom alert zones** with radius and magnitude filters
- **Multiple notification channels** (console, email, file logging)
- **Smart deduplication** prevents alert spam
- **Escalating alerts** for major seismic events

### 📊 **Analytics & Insights**
- **Real-time statistics** and trends
- **Historical data analysis** 
- **Magnitude distribution** charts
- **Regional activity patterns**

### 🛠️ **Developer Tools**
- **CLI interface** for all operations
- **REST API** for earthquake data
- **Python SDK** for custom integrations
- **Comprehensive test suite**

## 🚀 Quick Start

### Installation

```bash
# Clone the repository
git clone https://github.com/yourusername/seismowatch.git
cd seismowatch

# Create virtual environment
python -m venv venv
source venv/bin/activate  # On Windows: venv\Scripts\activate

# Install dependencies
pip install -r requirements.txt
```

### Basic Usage

```bash
# View recent earthquakes
python -m seismowatch earthquakes

# Create custom earthquake map
python -m seismowatch earthquake-map --min-mag 5.0 --days 7

# Start live alert monitoring
python -m seismowatch alert-demo

# Launch web dashboard
python -m seismowatch dashboard
```

### Web Dashboard

```bash
# Start the web dashboard
python -m seismowatch dashboard

# Open http://127.0.0.1:5000 in your browser
```

## 📖 Documentation

### CLI Commands

| Command | Description | Example |
|---------|-------------|---------|
| `earthquakes` | Create earthquake visualizations | `python -m seismowatch earthquakes` |
| `earthquake-map` | Custom filtered earthquake map | `python -m seismowatch earthquake-map --min-mag 6.0` |
| `alert-demo` | Start monitoring with preset zones | `python -m seismowatch alert-demo` |
| `alert-zone` | Create custom alert zone | `python -m seismowatch alert-zone --name "SF Bay" --lat 37.77 --lon -122.42` |
| `dashboard` | Launch web dashboard | `python -m seismowatch dashboard --port 8080` |
| `geocode` | Convert address to coordinates | `python -m seismowatch geocode --address "Tokyo, Japan"` |

### API Endpoints

```bash
# Get recent earthquakes
GET /api/recent_earthquakes?days=7&min_mag=4.0

# Get earthquake statistics  
GET /api/stats

# Get configured alert zones
GET /api/alert_zones

# Health check
GET /api/health
```

### Python SDK

```python
from seismowatch import EarthquakeDataFetcher, EarthquakeVisualizer

# Fetch earthquake data
fetcher = EarthquakeDataFetcher()
earthquakes = fetcher.fetch_earthquakes(min_magnitude=5.0, days=7)

# Create visualizations
visualizer = EarthquakeVisualizer()
map_obj = visualizer.create_earthquake_map(earthquakes)
map_obj.save('my_earthquake_map.html')
```

## 🔧 Configuration

### Alert Zones

Create custom monitoring zones with specific parameters:

```python
from seismowatch.alerts import AlertZone, EarthquakeMonitor

# Define alert zone
zone = AlertZone(
    name="San Francisco Bay Area",
    center_lat=37.7749,
    center_lon=-122.4194,
    radius_km=100,
    min_magnitude=4.0
)

# Start monitoring
monitor = EarthquakeMonitor()
monitor.add_alert_zone(zone)
monitor.start_monitoring()
```

### Email Notifications

Configure SMTP settings for email alerts:

```python
from seismowatch.alerts import EmailNotificationHandler

email_handler = EmailNotificationHandler(
    smtp_server="smtp.gmail.com",
    smtp_port=587,
    username="your-email@gmail.com",
    password="your-app-password",
    recipients=["alerts@yourcompany.com"]
)
```

## 🧪 Testing

Run the comprehensive test suite:

```bash
# Run all tests
pytest

# Run with coverage
pytest --cov=seismowatch

# Run specific test categories
pytest tests/test_earthquakes.py
pytest tests/test_alerts.py
pytest tests/test_web.py
```

## 🏗️ Architecture

```
seismowatch/
├── seismowatch/           # Main package
│   ├── __init__.py
│   ├── cli.py            # Command line interface
│   ├── earthquakes.py    # Data fetching and processing
│   ├── alerts.py         # Alert system and monitoring
│   ├── geo.py           # Geospatial utilities
│   ├── web.py           # Web application
│   └── dashboard.py     # Real-time dashboard
├── tests/               # Test suite
├── docs/               # Documentation
├── static/             # Static web assets
└── requirements.txt    # Dependencies
```

## 📊 Data Sources

- **USGS Earthquake Hazards Program**: Real-time earthquake data
- **OpenStreetMap**: Base map tiles
- **Natural Earth**: Geographic boundaries

## 🤝 Contributing

We welcome contributions! Please see our [Contributing Guide](CONTRIBUTING.md) for details.

### Development Setup

```bash
# Install development dependencies
pip install -r requirements-dev.txt

# Install pre-commit hooks
pre-commit install

# Run linting
black seismowatch/ tests/
flake8 seismowatch/ tests/
```

## 📈 Performance

- **Sub-second response times** for earthquake data
- **30-second update intervals** for live monitoring  
- **Handles 1000+ concurrent users**
- **99.9% uptime** with proper deployment

## 🔒 Security

- **Rate limiting** on API endpoints
- **Input validation** for all user data
- **CORS protection** for web dashboard
- **No sensitive data storage**

## 📄 License

This project is licensed under the MIT License - see the [LICENSE](LICENSE) file for details.

## 🙏 Acknowledgments

- [USGS Earthquake Hazards Program](https://earthquake.usgs.gov/) for providing real-time earthquake data
- [Leaflet.js](https://leafletjs.com/) for interactive mapping
- [Flask](https://flask.palletsprojects.com/) for the web framework
- The global seismology community for their critical work

## 🌟 Star History

[![Star History Chart](https://api.star-history.com/svg?repos=yourusername/seismowatch&type=Date)](https://star-history.com/#yourusername/seismowatch&Date)

---

**Made with ❤️ by earthquake monitoring enthusiasts**

*Helping people stay informed about seismic activity worldwide.*

Commit message:

Fix dashboard imports and tests

README.md, after:

# 🌍 SeismoWatch: Real-time Earthquake Monitoring Platform

[![Python](https://img.shields.io/badge/python-3.8+-blue.svg)](https://www.python.org/downloads/)
[![License: MIT](https://img.shields.io/badge/License-MIT-yellow.svg)](https://opensource.org/licenses/MIT)
[![Tests](https://img.shields.io/badge/tests-passing-green.svg)](#testing)
[![Live Demo](https://img.shields.io/badge/demo-live-brightgreen.svg)](https://earthquake-dashboard.github.io)

A comprehensive **real-time earthquake monitoring platform** that provides live seismic data, intelligent alerts, and beautiful visualizations. Built with Python, Flask, and modern web technologies.

![SeismoWatch Dashboard](docs/images/dashboard-preview.png)

## ✨ Features

### 🔴 **Real-time Monitoring**
- **Live earthquake data** from USGS with 30-second updates
- **Interactive world map** with magnitude-based color coding
- **WebSocket alerts** for instant notifications
- **Background monitoring** with configurable alert zones

### 🗺️ **Advanced Visualizations**
- **Interactive maps** powered by Leaflet.js
- **Heatmaps** showing earthquake density
- **Timeline visualizations** of seismic activity
- **3D depth analysis** and cross-sections

### 🚨 **Intelligent Alerting**
- **Custom alert zones** with radius and magnitude filters
- **Multiple notification channels** (console, email, file logging)
- **Smart deduplication** prevents alert spam
- **Escalating alerts** for major seismic events

### 📊 **Analytics & Insights**
- **Real-time statistics** and trends
- **Historical data analysis** 
- **Magnitude distribution** charts
- **Regional activity patterns**

### 🛠️ **Developer Tools**
- **CLI interface** for all operations
- **REST API** for earthquake data
- **Python SDK** for custom integrations
- **Comprehensive test suite**

## 🚀 Quick Start

### Installation

```bash
# Clone the repository
git clone https://github.com/yourusername/seismowatch.git
cd seismowatch

# Create virtual environment
python -m venv venv
source venv/bin/activate  # On Windows: venv\Scripts\activate

# Install dependencies
pip install -r requirements.txt
```

### Basic Usage

```bash
# View recent earthquakes
python -m seismowatch earthquakes

# Create custom earthquake map
python -m seismowatch earthquake-map --min-mag 5.0 --days 7

# Start live alert monitoring
python -m seismowatch alert-demo

# Launch web dashboard
python -m seismowatch dashboard
```

### Web Dashboard

```bash
# Start the web dashboard
python -m seismowatch dashboard

# Open http://127.0.0.1:5000 in your browser
```

## 📖 Documentation

### CLI Commands

| Command | Description | Example |
|---------|-------------|---------|
| `earthquakes` | Create earthquake visualizations | `python -m seismowatch earthquakes` |
| `earthquake-map` | Custom filtered earthquake map | `python -m seismowatch earthquake-map --min-mag 6.0` |
| `alert-demo` | Start monitoring with preset zones | `python -m seismowatch alert-demo` |
| `alert-zone` | Create custom alert zone | `python -m seismowatch alert-zone --name "SF Bay" --lat 37.77 --lon -122.42` |
| `dashboard` | Launch web dashboard | `python -m seismowatch dashboard --port 8080` |
| `geocode` | Convert address to coordinates | `python -m seismowatch geocode --address "Tokyo, Japan"` |

### API Endpoints

```bash
# Get recent earthquakes
GET /api/recent_earthquakes?days=7&min_mag=4.0

# Get earthquake statistics  
GET /api/stats

# Get configured alert zones
GET /api/alert_zones

# Health check
GET /api/health
```

### Python SDK

```python
from seismowatch import EarthquakeDataFetcher, EarthquakeVisualizer

# Fetch earthquake data
fetcher = EarthquakeDataFetcher()
earthquakes = fetcher.fetch_earthquakes(min_magnitude=5.0, days=7)

# Create visualizations
visualizer = EarthquakeVisualizer()
map_obj = visualizer.create_earthquake_map(earthquakes)
map_obj.save('my_earthquake_map.html')
```

## 🔧 Configuration

### Alert Zones

Create custom monitoring zones with specific parameters:

```python
from seismowatch.alerts import AlertZone, EarthquakeMonitor

# Define alert zone
zone = AlertZone(
    name="San Francisco Bay Area",
    center_lat=37.7749,
    center_lon=-122.4194,
    radius_km=100,
    min_magnitude=4.0
)

# Start monitoring
monitor = EarthquakeMonitor()
monitor.add_alert_zone(zone)
monitor.start_monitoring()
```

### Email Notifications

Configure SMTP settings for email alerts:

```python
from seismowatch.alerts import EmailNotificationHandler

email_handler = EmailNotificationHandler(
    smtp_server="smtp.gmail.com",
    smtp_port=587,
    username="your-email@gmail.com",
    password="your-app-password",
    recipients=["alerts@yourcompany.com"]
)
```

## 🧪 Testing

Run the comprehensive test suite:

```bash
# Run all tests
pytest

# Run with coverage
pytest --cov=seismowatch

# Run specific test categories
pytest tests/test_earthquakes.py
pytest tests/test_alerts.py
pytest tests/test_web.py
```

## 🌐 Sample Servers

Two small Flask apps are provided for manual testing:

```bash
python sample_server.py
python minimal_server.py
```

These scripts simply confirm that Flask is working and are not part of the automated tests.

## 🏗️ Architecture

```
seismowatch/
├── seismowatch/           # Main package
│   ├── __init__.py
│   ├── cli.py            # Command line interface
│   ├── earthquakes.py    # Data fetching and processing
│   ├── alerts.py         # Alert system and monitoring
│   ├── geo.py           # Geospatial utilities
│   ├── web.py           # Web application
│   └── dashboard.py     # Real-time dashboard
├── tests/               # Test suite
├── docs/               # Documentation
├── static/             # Static web assets
└── requirements.txt    # Dependencies
```

## 📊 Data Sources

- **USGS Earthquake Hazards Program**: Real-time earthquake data
- **OpenStreetMap**: Base map tiles
- **Natural Earth**: Geographic boundaries

## 🤝 Contributing

We welcome contributions! Please see our [Contributing Guide](CONTRIBUTING.md) for details.

### Development Setup

```bash
# Install development dependencies
pip install -r requirements-dev.txt

# Install pre-commit hooks
pre-commit install

# Run linting
black seismowatch/ tests/
flake8 seismowatch/ tests/
```

## 📈 Performance

- **Sub-second response times** for earthquake data
- **30-second update intervals** for live monitoring  
- **Handles 1000+ concurrent users**
- **99.9% uptime** with proper deployment

## 🔒 Security

- **Rate limiting** on API endpoints
- **Input validation** for all user data
- **CORS protection** for web dashboard
- **No sensitive data storage**

## 📄 License

This project is licensed under the MIT License - see the [LICENSE](LICENSE) file for details.

## 🙏 Acknowledgments

- [USGS Earthquake Hazards Program](https://earthquake.usgs.gov/) for providing real-time earthquake data
- [Leaflet.js](https://leafletjs.com/) for interactive mapping
- [Flask](https://flask.palletsprojects.com/) for the web framework
- The global seismology community for their critical work

## 🌟 Star History

[![Star History Chart](https://api.star-history.com/svg?repos=yourusername/seismowatch&type=Date)](https://star-history.com/#yourusername/seismowatch&Date)

---

**Made with ❤️ by earthquake monitoring enthusiasts**

*Helping people stay informed about seismic activity worldwide.*
